# Operation Save My SSD

I lost the password for my LUKS-encrypted drive. Embarassing as this may be,
it's interesting to think that I've accidentally made a time-capsule.

I remember some facts about my LUKS passphrase:
- I'm certain it contains `Thingy` with exact casing
- I'm confident `Thingy` was at the very beginning.
  It it wasn't, then I'm certain it at least followed
  three numerical digits starting with `7`, most likely
  either `756` or `753`; or `573` if it didn't start
  with `7`.
- Assuming `Thingy` did not follow three digits, which I'm
  fairly sure it didn't, three digits follow Thingy as
  described above: `756` or `753` being most likely.
- There were some symbols or numbers on the top-left of
  the keyboard after that, or some pattern similar to that
  with the previous 7-starting sequence of numbers but with
  symbols instead; maybe something like "%^$" ior "#$@"
  for example.
- Example: it might be `Thingy573%123@#,./;'`

## Wordlists

Organizing passphrases that have already been tried is important, so
those will be stored in this repository. The list of passphrases
that were already tried will never be too large for this repo because
it is not computationally feasible to try any number of passphrases
that wouldn't be - at least, as far as we currently know.

- `wordlists/tried/output.txt`
  - generated by `generators/vibes-1` with `first.json5`
- `wordlists/tried/output_1.1.txt`
  - it's `output.txt` with every line prefixed with `756`
- `wordlists/tried/output_1.2.txt`
  - it's `output.txt` with every line prefixed with `753`

## Useful Techniques

### Prefix every line of a file

This is the sh code I used to prefix numbers to generate the wordlists
`output_1.1.txt` and `output_1.2.txt`.

```sh
sed 's/^/753/' input.txt > output.txt
```

### Process a new wordlist

New wordlists should be processed. This means:
1. Remove any passphrases already in previous wordlists
2. Remove duplicate entries in the output

#### Using `sort` on large files

If you use `sort` on large files, and your `/tmp` is a small ram disk, you
might notice it fails after running out of space. You can tell sort to use
a larger disk instead; it might be slower, but it will actually work:

```sh
sort -T /path/to/big/disk file.txt
```

#### Removing entries from previous wordlists

```sh
comm -23 <(sort old.txt) <(sort new.txt) > filtered.txt
```

#### Removing Duplicates

```sh
sort input.txt | uniq > output.txt
```

